1)- It is obvious that content served by a geographically near server will be faster then otherwise.
2)- domain name belonging to a CDN resolves to multiple IP addresses based on the geographical.
3)- These servers are called edge servers. If the requeted content in edge server's cache and not expired
    than request is immediately served.
4)- else request is sent to origin server that is the source of truth and response is cached for future 
    requests.
5)- DNS resolution is done based on the IP address of DSN resolver of the rquesting machine not on the basis 
    of machine's IP address.

Push CDNs
1)- Push CDNs receive new content whenever changes occur on your server. You take full responsibility for providing content, uploading directly to the CDN and rewriting URLs to point to the CDN. You can configure when content expires and when it is updated. Content is uploaded only when it is new or changed, minimizing traffic, but maximizing storage.
2)- Sites with a small amount of traffic or sites with content that isn't often updated work well with push CDNs. Content is placed on the CDNs once, instead of being re-pulled at regular intervals.

Pull CDNs
1)- Pull CDNs grab new content from your server when the first user requests the content. You leave the content on your server and rewrite URLs to point to the CDN. This results in a slower request until the content is cached on the CDN.
2)- A time-to-live (TTL) determines how long content is cached. Pull CDNs minimize storage space on the CDN, but can create redundant traffic if files expire and are pulled before they have actually changed.

Sites with heavy traffic work well with pull CDNs, as traffic is spread out more evenly with only recently-requested content remaining on the CDN.

Disadvantage(s): CDN

    CDN costs could be significant depending on traffic, although this should be weighed with additional costs you would incur not using a CDN.
    Content might be stale if it is updated before the TTL expires it.
    CDNs require changing URLs for static content to point to the CDN.

